Blog: Developer marketing for early stage startups (#5255)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/dev-marketing-for-startups.md

---
date: 2023-02-09
title: Developer marketing for early stage startups - what we’ve learned at PostHog
rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
author:
  - charles-cook
featuredImage: ../images/blog/posthog-blog-image.png
featuredImageType: full
category: Startups
tags:
  - Guides
---

Since starting PostHog in 2020, we’ve learned a bunch about what does and doesn’t work for us when it comes to marketing to engineers. There are plenty of articles about ‘developer marketing’ out there, but I found most of them to be either generic or focused on later stage companies. 

In this intro article, my intention is to share specific, actionable advice for early stage startups building devtools. I’ve bucketed these into pre- and post-product-market fit advice.

Longer term, I’m going to flesh out each point into its own short article for those who want to go a bit deeper.

I’ve also included a couple of channels that we haven’t nailed but know other successful devtool companies consider important. We’re still learning, and definitely haven’t figured everything out!

### Pre-product-market fit

**Compete on content depth, not breadth** 

> Trying to go head to head with much larger competitors on content output is a losing game, so focus on quality instead. You are not Cloudflare (yet). 1 great article >>> 25 mediocre ones. Quality is more important than hitting an arbitrary content schedule - and makes the writing process a lot more enjoyable. Our balance is approx. ⅓ SEO articles, ⅓ tutorials, ⅓ anything goes. 

Author: I added this because I figured people would want to know 'but what do I write about'?

> Trying to go head to head with much larger competitors on content output is a losing game, so focus on quality instead. You are not Cloudflare (yet). 1 great article >>> 25 mediocre ones. Quality is more important than hitting an arbitrary content schedule - and makes the writing process a lot more enjoyable. Our balance is approx. ⅓ SEO articles, ⅓ tutorials, ⅓ anything goes. 

Author: I expanded this a bit so that it flows better

Treat your SEO portfolio like a VC treats their investments - invest time updating your best SEO pieces, don’t just write something and forget about it. 

**Ask yourself ‘is this content _genuinely useful_ to a developer?’**

This applies to _everything_ you write. SEO articles are not exempt from this rule - saying ‘oh it’s SEO so being useful is less important so long as we have good keywords’ is bad marketing. If you wouldn’t be proud to share the content on your personal site, you shouldn’t publish it. 

**Treat your website like a product** 

This means keeping it separate from marketing, which is the opposite of what most companies do. While our marketing and website teams work very closely together, the website team has the final say on what appears on posthog.com. This stops the website becoming too marketing-y and falling foul of marketing ‘best practices’ that most developers (and people in general) despise.   

> **Hire a developer who loves writing onto your marketing team** 

Author: Agreed - I'll move it

**Hacker News is a double-edged sword** 

We’ve found that hitting the front page results in a giant, ego-boosting traffic boost, with a noticeable but small signup boost. It’s not dependable though - even if you’re really good at it, you’ll have a 1 in 10 hit rate. You need to graduate to repeatable marketing at some point. 

Don’t upvote your own content, and don’t ask other people to - post it and pray. There are no secret tricks.

**Beware the attribution mirage**

You can’t rely on UTM parameters to tell you where a user actually first heard about you. Example: user reads an article about PostHog on Hacker News -> searches ‘posthog’ -> clicks on a Google Ad. Our analytics will tell us ‘wow, Google Ads are awesome!’ But that’s not the whole picture. 

In your product signup flow, include an optional free text box asking people where they first heard about you. About 10% of signups usually fill this in. Read the data and report on it every week. It’s manual but vitally important info.

### Post-product-market fit

**Paid ads are not all bad** 

> Paid ads can be a useful tool for learning quickly if you are building a consumer app, but _not_ for devtools (see ‘attribution mirage’ above), which is why I’ve put them in post-PMF. It is very easy to spend tons of money on shit, especially in Google Ads. NEVER USE THE DEFAULT SETTINGS on Google, LinkedIn, and Twitter especially. Hire a cheap agency. We aim to be 7/10 at paid ads, not amazing. Focus that energy on your content instead. 

Reviewer: How much should you spend on a "cheap" agency?

Author: Added a note

> Google is good for conversion, while LinkedIn ($$$), Twitter ($$), Reddit ($), and Quora ($) are good for general awareness. Avoid Product Hunt if you sell something that costs > $10/month (you’ll get loads of signups, but they hate spending money). Carbon Ads is very expensive and was a waste of time for us. 

Author: It's an advertising platform that is dev-focused, if you Google them they come up first so I'm comfortable people will be able to find them!

**It’s ok to waste money on sponsorships** 

> They are generally quite expensive, but unfortunately you need to spend money to learn here. Newsletters are the best place to start - they can be highly effective once you find the right one. Ask your engineers and users what newsletters they like, then sponsor those. Do bursts of activity - e.g. 3 months on, 3 months off. Switch up the copy so you don't exhaust the audience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
They are generally quite expensive, but unfortunately you need to spend money to learn here. Newsletters are the best place to start - they can be highly effective once you find the right one. Ask your engineers and users what newsletters they actually read, then sponsor those. Do bursts of activity - e.g. 3 months on, 3 months off. Switch up the copy so you don't exhaust the audience.
```

> YouTube is hard and a much more expensive way to reach developers. Most dev-focused content is for people learning to code, so beware.

Author: Good point - I'll add something

### Two things we haven’t figured out yet

**Events are 10x more work than you think** 

> Don’t host your own - you do not have the budget to do this well. Do attend others though, if you have someone on your team who loves doing them and is an engineer. Sending marketing people to events only is not leveraged enough. For now, we give our entire team budget to attend events on PostHog's behalf and leave it at that. Sponsoring events is disproportionately expensive - and if your name appears on the same level as Google's, you are definitely wasting your money. 

Reviewer: Some size caveat here?

Author: Nah, I think this applies to any size event basically

> **It's ok for other commpanies to be much better than you at social media** 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**It's ok for other companies to be much better than you at social media** 
```

> We’re seeing promising results on Twitter, but it’s too early to share concrete feedback. One thing we have learned is to not try multiple channels at the same time - you just feel like you’ve done an ‘ok’ job at everything, and you don’t truly learn what works. We’ve found posting from personal accounts 10x more effective than posting from the company account. Bear in mind that the companies that do an excellent job at social media put _a lot_ of work into making it look effortless - don't underestimate the effort required. 

Reviewer: Aren't we talking about multiple channels at the same time in this guide? Maybe clarify that it is multiple social channels (such and Twitter, LinkedIn, and TikTok).

Author: Good point, will tweak slightly
